This is what Anakriti said, that when you are now meditating, when we say we meditate,
when we say that, who is meditating?
So when you look to your mind or ask your mind to question, who is meditating?
There is no answer. And that's called speak less. Speak less.
When you look to that, you ask when you look to searching that inquiry, when you are trying to
search,
search what you point. There is nothing to point.
That is the teaching of the nature of the mind. That is really the nature of the mind.
And then he said, we mingle our mind with the nature of the Guru's mind.
Guru's mind. That is in the teaching said, as for example,
Viribhav Masambha, now who is important and all teachers, dissolved and become in the space
and it merged to your heart center. That means actually with your own nature of the mind.
According to Buddhism, the mind, the principal location of the mind or the residence of the place
to stay
of the mind is really hard. The space in mind is the principal, that is his mind's principal
residence.
But then in the brain, of course, secondly, his offices, his or her offices.
It is like working offices. The brain is working offices and the heart is the last sequence.
So we need that merge that the Guru Masambha, the sphere of life, what we visualize,
it merged to now your heart with your own nature of the mind or to your mind.
It merged to your mind. That merging is known as merging the mind of the Guru
and the practitioners. That is what you visualize, what you meditate.
And then now, when you say the same thing, again, when you think, what is merging,
what is the mind, there is no, nothing that we can say anything.
That is really the nature. What it relates to the teacher of the Buddha said,
inexpressible, inconceivable. That is inconceivable status.
This is not inconceivable status by the wisdom, but then what in the teaching said,
harsutta, pristine cognition, one's own awareness, can see.
But not by the conception of the brain, that we see.
No, it is beyond. You understand a little bit? Okay.
But this realization, generally, this is really in the teaching said,
realization of the true nature of the mind is not just going to come by the intellectuals
or by anything. But of course, intellectual will help.
That's why it was made as a wisdom of the studying,
a wisdom of the contemplations, a wisdom of the meditation,
and all that kind of goes one after another. It will help.
But actually, it really, realization comes by the true.
And that is known as devotion and merit.
That true will really come. And then along with that merit,
that means it's a compensation activities.
That combined two, for that reason, and for that reason, here also said,
here, again, in the aspect, you say it many times here.
Okay. This is not just going to come easily, kind of like that.
But once you got that glimpse of that understanding,
glimpse of that understanding of what we're talking now,
intellectually talking, that is good understanding.
If you continually abide that state with the devotion,
with the bodhicata, with the merit practices,
merituri practices, and then it's all combined.
Merituri practices also know something completely different.
It's also really part of the nature. So all that is supported, then all comes.
For that reason, what the great Master Sarai said, I think,
we heard many times from him, which he, I suppose, said a few times.
I'll show you from other great Masters too.
The realization is welcomed only by the devotion and merituri activities.
That is really the principle condition to boost or to bring realization.
Otherwise, there is no any other alternatives to gather realization
in the teaching center, no any other alternatives.
I mean, that's what Sarai said.
[Hindi]
It is really to have to do, to accumulate merit
that will purify the obscurations and by the blessings of the lineage
that will shine the realization.
If you're thinking something else, you're diluting yourself.
That's what Sarai said.
- Okay.